apps.mdx, before:

---
title: Apps
description: "An overview of apps, why you should make them, and how to make them."
---

Apps allow **anyone** to create an experience and sell it on Whop, whether you are a **company** looking to gain an edge over competitors with a custom experience, or a **developer** looking to make another source of income by selling your App to other companies.

### Examples of Apps

Here are some examples of experiences built using our Apps infrastructure, which are available for any business on Whop.

- [**Deliveries**](/)
- [**Sports Feed**](/)
- [**More examples to be added**](/)

---

## Why should I make an app

### Advantages for Companies

Developing your own apps allows your business to offer **hyper-niche** experiences catered to your unique needs. This approach not only enhances user experience, but also sets you apart from your competition.

### Advantages for Developers

As you can monetize your apps, you can take a cut every time a company users your app. This is a great way to make a passive income, without needing to deal with the hassle of marketing and sales.

## How to make an App

To get started with making an app, you can follow our [**guide**](/apps/create-an-app)

Commit message:

Remove note from API reference

apps.mdx, after:

---
title: Apps
description: "An overview of apps, why you should make them, and how to make them."
---

Apps allow **anyone** to create an experience and sell it on Whop, whether you are a **company** looking to gain an edge over competitors with a custom experience, or a **developer** looking to make another source of income by selling your App to other companies.

### Examples of Apps

Here are some examples of experiences built using our Apps infrastructure, which are available for any business on Whop.

- [**Deliveries**](/)
- [**Sports Feed**](/)
- [**More examples to be added**](/)

---

## Why should I make an app

### Advantages for Companies

Developing your own apps allows your business to offer **hyper-niche** experiences catered to your unique needs. This approach not only enhances user experience, but also sets you apart from your competition.

### Advantages for Developers

As you can monetize your apps, you can take a cut every time a company users your app. This is a great way to make a passive income, without needing to deal with the hassle of marketing and sales.

## How to make an App

If you are using Next.js, we recommend you use our [Next.js Template](/apps/next-template) to create your app, it will get your started faster and you can skip some mundane setup.

If you would like to get started from scratch, you can follow our [App Development Guide](/apps/create-an-app).
