apps/create-an-app.mdx, before:

---
title: Create an App
description: "Guide on how to create a Whop App"
---

In this guide, you will learn how to create a Whop App from scratch, using Next.js.

---

## Creating an app in Whop

[THIS WILL BE A SECTION ON HOW TO CREATE AN APP IN THE DEVELOPER PAGE]

---

## Setting up your environment

This guide uses Next.js, so you will need to setup a Next.js project.

```bash
yarn create next-app
```

<Note>
  This guide uses the [**App Directory**](https://nextjs.org/docs/app), so we
  recommend you to use the same name for your project.
</Note>

### Installing the Whop App SDK

We have created our own package to make it easier to integrate Whop into your application. You will need to install the following package:

```bash
yarn add @whop/app-sdk
```

<Note>
  For more information on what the Whop SDK can do, head to [**INSERT LINK
  HERE**]
</Note>

### Installing Frosted UI (Optional)

[**Frosted UI**](https://storybook.whop.com) is a UI library created by Whop, it contains all the components used to build [**Whop**](https://whop.com). Although it is not required, we recommend you use it to keep the same look and feel as Whop.

```bash
yarn add @whop/frosted-ui
```

### Environment Variables

For the Whop SDK to work, you will need to add the following environment variables:

- `WHOP_JWK_PK`: Public key used to verify JWTs. Encoded as a **JWK**. Exposed publicly on the [**Whop Dashboard**](https://dash.whop.com/settings/developer). TODO: actually expose this on the dashboard.
- `WHOP_API_KEY`: **API key** used to access the Whop API. Get this from the app developer page on the [**Whop Dashboard**](https://dash.whop.com/settings/developer).
- `WHOP_APP_ID`: **APP ID** of the current app. Get this from the app developer page on whop dashboard. Looks like: `app_XXXXXXXX`

<Note>
  When deploying your app, make sure these **are not hard-coded**. We recommend
  you use `.env.local` and to add it to your `.gitignore` file. This will
  prevent you from accidentally exposing your keys.
</Note>

---

## Setting up your pages

Once you have got the project created and the preresiquites installed, you can start creating your pages.

---

### Page Variables

To get context about the current company, and experience, these will be defined in the URL. For example:

```
https://domain.com/${company_id}/${experience_id}/hub
```

Currently, there are 3 variables that you can use:

- `experienceId` - The ID of the current experience
- `companyId` - The ID of the current company
- `membershipId` - The ID of the current membership (only available on the consumers view)

We need to set these variables in our paths on the settings page, you can do it like this:

![Imgur](https://i.imgur.com/TB1Q8ja.png)

<Note>
  Make sure all variable names are formatted correctly. They should be pre-fixed
  with `$`
</Note>

If you are using the App Directory, your project should like this:

```bash
cool-app/
├─ app/
│  ├─ admin/
│  │  ├─ [companyId]/
│  │  │  ├─ [experienceId]/
│  │  │  │  ├─ page.tsx
```

<Note>In this example, we are using the Admin/Merchant view.</Note>

---

#### Accessing the variables in Next.js

```typescript
import { PageProps } from "@local/shared/src/utils/page-props";

export default async function AdminPage({
  params,
}: PageProps<["companyId", "experienceId"]>) {
  const companyId = params.companyId;
  const experienceId = params.experienceId;
}
```

---

### Authenticating a user

To ensure that the user is authenticated, we can add the following line of code:

```typescript
import { headers } from "next/headers";
import { validateToken } from "@whop-apps/sdk/src/auth";

export default async function AdminPage() {
  await validateToken({ headers });
}
```

This will validate the users token, and throw an error if the token is invalid.

Commit message:

Add more info on variables/paths

apps/create-an-app.mdx, after:

---
title: Create an App
description: "Guide on how to create a Whop App"
---

In this guide, you will learn how to create a Whop App from scratch, using Next.js.

---

## Creating an app in Whop

[THIS WILL BE A SECTION ON HOW TO CREATE AN APP IN THE DEVELOPER PAGE]

---

## Setting up your environment

This guide uses Next.js, so you will need to setup a Next.js project.

```bash
yarn create next-app
```

<Note>
  This guide uses the [**App Directory**](https://nextjs.org/docs/app), so we
  recommend you to use the same name for your project.
</Note>

---

### Installing the Whop App SDK

We have created our own package to make it easier to integrate Whop into your application. You will need to install the following package:

```bash
yarn add @whop/app-sdk
```

<Note>
  For more information on what the Whop SDK can do, head to [**INSERT LINK
  HERE**]
</Note>

---

### Installing Frosted UI (Optional)

[**Frosted UI**](https://storybook.whop.com) is a UI library created by Whop, it contains all the components used to build [**Whop**](https://whop.com). Although it is not required, we recommend you use it to keep the same look and feel as Whop.

```bash
yarn add @whop/frosted-ui
```

<Note>
  We recommend using Frosted as it will sync color preferences with the user's
  Whop preference.
</Note>

---

### Environment Variables

For the Whop SDK to work, you will need to add the following environment variables:

- `WHOP_JWK_PK`: Public key used to verify JWTs. Encoded as a **JWK**. Exposed publicly on the [**Whop Dashboard**](https://dash.whop.com/settings/developer). TODO: actually expose this on the dashboard.
- `WHOP_API_KEY`: **API key** used to access the Whop API. Get this from the app developer page on the [**Whop Dashboard**](https://dash.whop.com/settings/developer).
- `WHOP_APP_ID`: **APP ID** of the current app. Get this from the app developer page on whop dashboard. Looks like: `app_XXXXXXXX`

<Note>
  When deploying your app, make sure these **are not hard-coded**. We recommend
  you use `.env.local` and to add it to your `.gitignore` file. This will
  prevent you from accidentally exposing your keys.
</Note>

---

## Setting up your pages

Once you have got the project created and the preresiquites installed, you can start creating your pages.

---

### Page Variables

To get context about the current company, and experience, these will be defined in the URL. For example:

```
https://domain.com/${company_id}/${experience_id}/hub
```

Currently, there are 3 variables that you can use:

- `experienceId` - The ID of the current experience
- `companyId` - The ID of the current company
- `membershipId` - The ID of the current membership (only available on the consumers view)

This path needs to be set in the Apps settings, you can do so [**here**](https://dash.whop.com/settings/developer):

![Imgur](https://i.imgur.com/TB1Q8ja.png)

<Note>
  Make sure all variable names are formatted correctly. They should be pre-fixed
  with `$`
</Note>

Using the above example, the file structure would look like this:

```bash
cool-app/
├─ app/
│  ├─ admin/
│  │  ├─ [companyId]/
│  │  │  ├─ [experienceId]/
│  │  │  │  ├─ page.tsx
```

---

#### Accessing the variables in Next.js

```typescript
import { PageProps } from "@local/shared/src/utils/page-props";

export default async function AdminPage({
  params,
}: PageProps<["companyId", "experienceId"]>) {
  const companyId = params.companyId;
  const experienceId = params.experienceId;
}
```

---

### Authenticating a user

To ensure that the user is authenticated, we can add the following line of code:

```typescript
import { headers } from "next/headers";
import { validateToken } from "@whop-apps/sdk/src/auth";

export default async function AdminPage() {
  await validateToken({ headers });
}
```

This will validate the users token, and throw an error if the token is invalid.
