apps/next-template.mdx, before:

---
title: Next.js Template
description: "Guide on how to use our Next.js template"
---

To make it easier for developers to get started building apps, we have created a Next.js template to help you get started. It includes:

- [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org)
- [Whop Apps SDK](/apps/sdks)
- [Frosted UI](/apps/frosted)

## Using the template

There are currently 3 ways to use the template, you can [clone the GitHub repository](#cloning-the-github-repository), use the [`create-next-app`](#using-the-create-next-app-command) command, or use the [Vercel Deploy Button](#vercel-deploy-button) and automatically deploy it on Vercel.

---

These will create a project with the SDKs installed, and the basic project structure. There will be two pages created for you, the `app/admin/[companyId]/[experienceId]/page.tsx` and `app/user/[membershipId]/[experienceId]/page.tsx`.

In these pages, you will see the `await validateToken()` function, this will ensure that only authenticated users are able to view the page. For more details on this function, click [**here**](/apps/sdks#validatetoken).

You will also find that we have passed the page props into the page, this allows you to access them and use them accordingly. For more details on the page props, click [**here**](/apps/create-an-app#page-variables).

Our in-house component library, **Frosted UI**, has also been installed. This library is optional however greatly recommended. For more details on Frosted UI, click [**here**](/apps/frosted).

<Tip>
  Once you have installed the template, we recommend you read our
  [**guides**](/apps/create-an-app#developer-mode) to get a deeper understanding
  on how each aspect works.
</Tip>

### Cloning the GitHub repository

You can clone the GitHub repository and use it as a starting point for your app.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/whopio/whop-apps-template.git
```

---

### Using the `create-next-app` command

We have setup a command that allows you to create a Next.js app with our template, just run the following command:

<CodeGroup>

```bash npm
npx create-next-app --example https://github.com/whopio/whop-apps-template.git
```

```bash yarn
yarn create next-app --example https://github.com/whopio/whop-apps-template.git
```

```bash pnpm
pnpm create next-app --example https://github.com/whopio/whop-apps-template.git
```

</CodeGroup>

---

### Vercel Deploy Button

To instantly deploy the template on Vercel, you can use the button below. This will create a new project on Vercel and deploy the template.

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fwhopio%2Fwhop-apps-template)

Commit message:

Create app on Whop guide

apps/next-template.mdx, after:

---
title: Next.js Template
description: "Guide on how to use our Next.js template"
---

To make it easier for developers to get started building apps, we have created a Next.js template to help you get started. It includes:

- [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org)
- [Whop Apps SDK](/apps/sdks)
- [Frosted UI](/apps/frosted)

## Using the template

There are currently 3 ways to use the template, you can [clone the GitHub repository](#cloning-the-github-repository), use the [`create-next-app`](#using-the-create-next-app-command) command, or use the [Vercel Deploy Button](#vercel-deploy-button) and automatically deploy it on Vercel.

---

These will create a project with the SDKs installed, and the basic project structure. There will be two pages created for you, the `app/admin/[companyId]/[experienceId]/page.tsx` and `app/user/[membershipId]/[experienceId]/page.tsx`.

In these pages, you will see the `await validateToken()` function, this will ensure that only authenticated users are able to view the page. For more details on this function, click [**here**](/apps/sdks#validatetoken).

You will also find that we have passed the page props into the page, this allows you to access them and use them accordingly. For more details on the page props, click [**here**](/apps/create-an-app#page-variables).

Our in-house component library, **Frosted UI**, has also been installed. This library is optional however greatly recommended. For more details on Frosted UI, click [**here**](/apps/frosted).

<Tip>
  Once you have installed the template, we recommend you read our
  [**guides**](/apps/create-an-app#developer-mode) to get a deeper understanding
  on how each aspect works and how to sell it on Whop.
</Tip>

### Cloning the GitHub repository

You can clone the GitHub repository and use it as a starting point for your app.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/whopio/whop-apps-template.git
```

---

### Using the `create-next-app` command

We have setup a command that allows you to create a Next.js app with our template, just run the following command:

<CodeGroup>

```bash npm
npx create-next-app --example https://github.com/whopio/whop-apps-template.git
```

```bash yarn
yarn create next-app --example https://github.com/whopio/whop-apps-template.git
```

```bash pnpm
pnpm create next-app --example https://github.com/whopio/whop-apps-template.git
```

</CodeGroup>

---

### Vercel Deploy Button

To instantly deploy the template on Vercel, you can use the button below. This will create a new project on Vercel and deploy the template.

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fwhopio%2Fwhop-apps-template)
