instructions/build-app-interface.mdx, before:

---
title: Build an App Interface
description: Learn how to build an interface for your app using Whop's chat or by embedding a full web app.
---



### Option 1: Use Whop's Chat as a UI

This option allows users to interact with your app through chat. It's ideal for agent-based applications.

- **Send Messages**: Send DMs to a specific feed ID.

  ```graphql
  mutation {
    sendMessage(feedID: "your-feed-id", feedType: "dms_feed", message: "Hello, World!") {
      success
      messageID
    }
  }
  ```

- **Fetch Messages**: Retrieve messages from a DMs feed.
  
  Fetches `$postLimit` number of posts from the DMs feed with ID `$feedId`.

  ```graphql
  query {
    dmsFeedData(feedId: $feedId, postsLimit: $postsLimit) {
      posts {
        content
        user {
          username
          id
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

- **Coming soon -- Listen to Messages**: Subscribe to a feed ID to receive messages.

For more detailed instructions, see the [Chatbot example](/examples/chatbot).

### Option 2: Build a Full Web App

Create a full web app that embeds into Whop.com on both mobile and web platforms. This option provides more control over the UI and automatically includes basic profile information of users accessing your app.

- **Best For**: Games, tools, and custom experiences.
- **User Profile Access**: Automatically receive basic user profile info to render in your UI.

### Setting Up Your App Views

Coming soon...

Commit message:

add basic app view logic (changing soon due to product updates)

instructions/build-app-interface.mdx, after:

---
title: Build an App Interface
description: Learn how to build an interface for your app using Whop's chat or by embedding a full web app.
---



### Option 1: Use Whop's Chat as a UI

This option allows users to interact with your app through chat. It's ideal for agent-based applications.

- **Send Messages**: Send DMs to a specific feed ID.

  ```graphql
  mutation {
    sendMessage(feedID: "your-feed-id", feedType: "dms_feed", message: "Hello, World!") {
      success
      messageID
    }
  }
  ```

- **Fetch Messages**: Retrieve messages from a DMs feed.
  
  Fetches `$postLimit` number of posts from the DMs feed with ID `$feedId`.

  ```graphql
  query {
    dmsFeedData(feedId: $feedId, postsLimit: $postsLimit) {
      posts {
        content
        user {
          username
          id
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

- **Coming soon -- Listen to Messages**: Subscribe to a feed ID to receive messages.

For more detailed instructions, see the [Chatbot example](/examples/chatbot).

### Option 2: Build a Full Web App

Create a full web app that embeds into Whop.com on both mobile and web platforms. This option provides more control over the UI and automatically includes basic profile information of users accessing your app.

- **Best For**: Games, tools, and custom experiences.
- **User Profile Access**: Automatically receive basic user profile info to render in your UI.

### Setting Up Your App Views

1. [Create an app](/instructions/get-api-key) if you haven't already.
2. [Create an app view](/instructions/create-app-views).
3. Set up your site to handle the path, and you're good to go!
